This folder contains research on RSA/DH/ECC cryptography. and more.

html notebooks are self-contained interactive experiments, presenting long-term research.

> **This is hand-"written" notebooks*, NOT AI-generated* (except for one). [Chats](https://github.com/dk14/crypto/blob/main/chats) with AI (GPT-OSS, "critical" "thinking" model) prove it was generating fiction (eg, talking to me about lattice theory which is useless for practical work with DLP). As well as one or two notebooks, I asked to generate (ends with "-ai").

Outcomes:

The bottom line: fastexp overhead is non-monotonic. Asymmetric encryption has "cat in a bag" security - defender has to spend as much energy/resources as attacker to ensure security of a given pubkey.

No free lunch, but illusion that there is.

From chats with GPT-OSS: Statistical estimates of "overheads of fast exp for DLP", which NIST and others (eg Blackberry) are using as an excuse, are not applicable to non-monotonic problems; made-up useless soviet 'proofs' there, coming from worst european ideas. 

> Additionally, ECC is even worse than DH, speaking of crypto - polynomials introduce more holes on top of illusions.
> Concretely - in one of the html notebooks here (I wrote by hand) - you can notice that naive billinear map (DLP problem transfer from Bitcoin to DH, aka from multiplicative group formed by elliptic curve polinomial to multiplicative group generated by exponentiation) that sign of encrypted number can be guessed sometimes, since a bit is flipping faster when you progress with decimals - this observation (reproducible in one of the notebooks) supports my argument about ECC being weaker than DH. There are trivially noticable statistical dependencies, even on the "strongest" bitcoin curve.
>
> "ECC creates jobs for cryptoanalysts simply" :).
>
> DLP Note on key restauration with deterministic slowexp (the inductively proven way): [here](https://github.com/dk14/crypto/blob/main/dlp.html#L225) I show that local monotonicities can be exploited to progress faster. [perfect power](https://github.com/dk14/crypto/blob/main/dlp.html#L137) (logN speedified with memoization) is used to skip through local monotonic interval.
>
> P.S. I accidentally re-invented "recently" (by academic standards) invented algorithm for fast perfect power (logN, I used divide and conquer), aka polynomial DLP-solution for non-cyclic integers. When I asked AI about it - it refered to David Harvey (2019).
----
About AI
> AI was a bit useful in my "abstract machine research", not presented here (spent a month or so), but [here](https://github.com/dk14/warriors/blob/main/eng.html), hand-"written". It, at least, gave nice formulations and was able to list challenges (with hallucinations though). But it gave me very bad code! Anything novel - u have to babysit it which I see as a trick to collect data simply, without permission.
>
> I think chat based on pure-search (rather than NN) would work better than GPT non-sense. Can add transform-grammars for reasoning (and context awareness), long-range masks for long-range dependencies/dropouts, and PoW to emphasize relevant truth (certify with energy). I have concept presented somewhere (called [YaQui Search](https://www.upwork.com/services/product/development-it-yaqui-p2p-search-engine-standalone-web-2007000568819406128)). I don;t recommend to ask AI about it, it will likely mislead you - I asked AI if ngrams can replace neural networks (I obviously specified details: few extensions needed to acccount for long-range dependencies) - it told me yes (GPT-OSS, GPT-5), while in reality transform grammars (more complex framework) is required.

> Trying to parse this README with AI naively is likely a bad idea 
>> AI-models often complain that notebooks are html - html was chosen for accessibility (Js is computationally complete - can model algorithms as well as Python/R/Wolfram). Reader can simply use them to test cryptogrpahic models, while let's say Jupyter (and alternatives) is slow and cumbersone, SageMath is overdesigned, HTML-notebook is light - easy to work with advanced science.

> can try to use something STEM to parse htmls, like GPT-OSS, and prompt it to cross-reference with chats - depends on the luck I guess. But ideally, don't use AI - just run HTML files and see what they do - AI cannot run even js code, it only guesses what's there.
-----

Energy conservation (or why not consumer/producer symmetry) also applies to TRNGs, but proof requires to replicate whole TRNG pipeline. 

> And without proof - cannot improve crypto

I replicated TRNG pipeline in a tool into a working state. Including deterministic model of entropy-source itself, with purposedly limited precision and accuracy. Contributions are welcome to make replicas more accurate: there is an elegant p2p protocol, designed to compensate security risks.

Bitcoin TRNG audit tool is here: https://github.com/dk14/crypto/tree/main/chats/btc-audit

-----

Note: this repo also serves as a root for augmented-reality [text based adventure game](chats/btc-audit/docs/FOR_GPT5.md)
. It is where research starts....
